# NETFLIX_MOVIES_AND_TV_SHOWS_CLUSTERING
This dataset consists of tv shows and movies available on Netflix as of 2019. The dataset is collected from Flixable which is a third-party Netflix search engine. In 2018, they released an interesting report which shows that the number of TV shows on Netflix has nearly tripled since 2010. The streaming service's number of movies has decreased by more than 2,000 titles since 2010, while its number of TV shows has nearly tripled. It will be interesting to explore what all other insights can be obtained from the same dataset.

Integrating this dataset with other external datasets such as IMDB ratings, rotten tomatoes can also provide many interesting findings.

# Problem Statement:

This dataset consists of tv shows and movies available on Netflix as of 2019. The dataset is collected from Flixable which is a third-party Netflix search engine.

In 2018, they released an interesting report which shows that the number of TV shows on Netflix has nearly tripled since 2010. The streaming service’s number of movies has decreased by more than 2,000 titles since 2010, while its number of TV shows has nearly tripled. It will be interesting to explore what all other insights can be obtained from the same dataset.

Integrating this dataset with other external datasets such as IMDB ratings, rotten tomatoes can also provide many interesting findings.

# Business Problem:

1. Exploratory Data Analysis

2. Understanding what type content is available in different countries

3. Is Netflix has increasingly focusing on TV rather than movies in recent years.

4. Clustering similar content by matching text-based features

# Conclusion:

There were approximately 7787 records and 12 attributes in the dataset.
We started by working on the missing values in the dataset and conducting exploratory data analysis (EDA).
It was discovered that Netflix hosts more movies than television shows on its platform, and the total number of shows added to Netflix is expanding at an exponential rate. Additionally, most of the shows were made in the United States.
The attributes were chosen as the basis for the clustering of the data: cast, country, genre, director, rating, and description The TFIDF vectorizer was used to tokenize, preprocess, and vectorize the values in these attributes.
The problem of dimensionality was dealt with through the use of Principal Component Analysis (PCA). Because 3000 components were able to account for more than 80% of the variance, the total number of components was limited to 3000.
Utilizing the K-Means Clustering algorithm, we first constructed clusters, and the optimal number of clusters was determined. The elbow method and Silhouette score analysis were used to get this.
The Agglomerative clustering algorithm was then used to create clusters, and the optimal number of clusters was determined to be 7. This was obtained after visualizing the dendrogram.
The similarity matrix generated by applying cosine similarity was used to construct a content-based recommender system. The user will receive ten recommendations from this recommender system based on the type of show they watched.
